data/blogs/adding-website-to-google-search-console.mdx, before:

---
title: "How to Add Your Website to Google Search Console"
author: "chatGPT"
description: "Step-by-step guide to adding your website to Google Search Console and verifying ownership for better SEO visibility."
date: "2025-07-13"
tags:
  ["seo", "google search console", "webmaster", "site verification", "nextjs"]
---

# 📈 Add Your Website to Google Search Console

**Google Search Console (GSC)** is a free tool that helps you monitor and optimize your site's presence in Google Search results. Whether you're running a blog, portfolio, or product website, adding it to GSC is essential for SEO.

---

## ✅ Step 1: Visit Google Search Console

Go to 👉 [https://search.google.com/search-console](https://search.google.com/search-console)

- Sign in with your Google account
- Click **“Start now”**

---

## 🏡 Step 2: Add Your Property (Website)

You'll see two options:

1. **Domain** (e.g., `yourdomain.com`) — requires DNS access
2. **URL Prefix** (e.g., `https://yourdomain.com`) — easier for beginners

👉 Choose **URL Prefix**, especially if you don’t want to edit DNS settings.

Enter your full URL (e.g., `https://thecodingvibes.dev`) and click **Continue**.

---

## 🔐 Step 3: Verify Ownership

<BlockQuote color="amber">
  {" "}
  Google gives several verification methods. The most common:{" "}
</BlockQuote>

> This is the next blockquote

### ✅ HTML Tag (best for frontend projects)

1. Choose **HTML tag** option
2. Copy the `<meta>` tag

```html
<meta name="google-site-verification" content="your-verification-code" />
```

Commit message:

Adding post summary in cards

data/blogs/adding-website-to-google-search-console.mdx, after:

---
title: "How to Add Your Website to Google Search Console"
author: "chatGPT"
description: "Step-by-step guide to adding your website to Google Search Console and verifying ownership for better SEO visibility."
date: "2025-07-13"
tags:
  ["seo", "google search console", "webmaster", "site verification", "nextjs"]
summary: |
  If you are thinking of growing your website online, you have to learn how to use google seach console.
  This article will teach you how to set up google search console for your website.
---

# 📈 Add Your Website to Google Search Console

**Google Search Console (GSC)** is a free tool that helps you monitor and optimize your site's presence in Google Search results. Whether you're running a blog, portfolio, or product website, adding it to GSC is essential for SEO.

---

## ✅ Step 1: Visit Google Search Console

Go to 👉 [https://search.google.com/search-console](https://search.google.com/search-console)

- Sign in with your Google account
- Click **“Start now”**

---

## 🏡 Step 2: Add Your Property (Website)

You'll see two options:

1. **Domain** (e.g., `yourdomain.com`) — requires DNS access
2. **URL Prefix** (e.g., `https://yourdomain.com`) — easier for beginners

👉 Choose **URL Prefix**, especially if you don’t want to edit DNS settings.

Enter your full URL (e.g., `https://thecodingvibes.dev`) and click **Continue**.

---

## 🔐 Step 3: Verify Ownership

<BlockQuote color="amber">
  {" "}
  Google gives several verification methods. The most common:{" "}
</BlockQuote>

> This is the next blockquote

### ✅ HTML Tag (best for frontend projects)

1. Choose **HTML tag** option
2. Copy the `<meta>` tag

```html
<meta name="google-site-verification" content="your-verification-code" />
```
