data/interview-prep/heaps-interview-prep.mdx, before:

---
title: "Heaps Explained for Interviews"
author: "chatGPT"
description: "Master Heaps for technical interviews. Learn how heaps work, common operations, and frequently asked questions with examples."
date: "2025-07-13"
tags:
  ["data structures", "heap", "priority queue", "algorithms", "interview prep"]
---

# 🛠️ Heaps for Interviews

A **Heap** is a special tree-based data structure that satisfies the **heap property**:

- **Min Heap**: Parent node ≤ its children
- **Max Heap**: Parent node ≥ its children

Heaps are commonly used to implement **priority queues**, **scheduling**, and for efficient **selection problems** like finding the _k smallest/largest_ elements.

---

## 🌳 Structure and Properties

- Binary Heap is a **complete binary tree** (all levels filled left to right).
- Typically implemented using an array:
  - For index `i`:
    - `left = 2i + 1`
    - `right = 2i + 2`
    - `parent = Math.floor((i - 1) / 2)`

---

## 🔄 Types of Heaps

### ✅ Min Heap

Smallest element is at the root.

```ts
// Example: [1, 3, 6, 5, 9, 8]
       1
     /   \
    3     6
   / \   /
  5   9 8
```

Commit message:

Adding post summary in cards

data/interview-prep/heaps-interview-prep.mdx, after:

---
title: "Heaps Explained for Interviews"
author: "chatGPT"
description: "Master Heaps for technical interviews. Learn how heaps work, common operations, and frequently asked questions with examples."
date: "2025-07-13"
tags:
  ["data structures", "heap", "priority queue", "algorithms", "interview prep"]
summary: |
  Heaps is one of the most basic data structures in programming and also one of the most asked concepts.
  If you want to do well in your technical interviews, you have to know about Heaps.
---

# 🛠️ Heaps for Interviews

A **Heap** is a special tree-based data structure that satisfies the **heap property**:

- **Min Heap**: Parent node ≤ its children
- **Max Heap**: Parent node ≥ its children

Heaps are commonly used to implement **priority queues**, **scheduling**, and for efficient **selection problems** like finding the _k smallest/largest_ elements.

---

## 🌳 Structure and Properties

- Binary Heap is a **complete binary tree** (all levels filled left to right).
- Typically implemented using an array:
  - For index `i`:
    - `left = 2i + 1`
    - `right = 2i + 2`
    - `parent = Math.floor((i - 1) / 2)`

---

## 🔄 Types of Heaps

### ✅ Min Heap

Smallest element is at the root.

```ts
// Example: [1, 3, 6, 5, 9, 8]
       1
     /   \
    3     6
   / \   /
  5   9 8
```
